README.md, before:

# Overdrip

IoT plant watering system where Raspberry Pi devices authenticate with Firebase, push sensor data, and pull configuration.

## Project Structure

This is a Bun monorepo with platform-specific packages:

```
packages/
├── core/       # Shared platform-agnostic code (config, schemas)
├── cli/        # Raspberry Pi CLI (uses Bun APIs)
├── web/        # React web app (browser-safe)
└── functions/  # Firebase Cloud Functions (built with Bun, deployed to Node.js)

infrastructure/
└── terraform/  # Monitoring infrastructure (metrics, dashboards, alerts)
```

## Architecture

Overdrip uses a **custom token authentication flow** with registration codes:

### 1. Device Setup (On Pi)

```bash
$ overdrip setup
```

- CLI calls `createDevice` Cloud Function
- Function generates device ID and custom Firebase token
- Function generates registration code (e.g., `A3K9-PL2M`) and stores in Firestore
- CLI authenticates with custom token and displays registration code

### 2. Device Registration (On Web)

- User visits web app and signs in with Google
- User enters registration code from Pi
- Web app calls `registerDevice` Cloud Function
- Function links device to user account and deletes one-time code

### 3. Runtime Operations

- Pi authenticates automatically on boot using stored credentials
- Device pushes sensor data and pulls configuration from Firestore
- Web dashboard displays all registered devices with real-time updates

### Key Features

- **Server-side registration code generation** - Secure, Firebase-managed
- **Auto-cleanup** - Scheduled function deletes expired codes daily
- **Monitoring** - Terraform-managed dashboards and alerts
- **Type-safe API contracts** - Shared Zod schemas between client and server
- **Real-time updates** - Firestore listeners for instant UI updates

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh) v1.2.23 or later
- [Terraform](https://terraform.io) (for infrastructure deployment)
- Firebase project configured

### Installation

Install dependencies for all packages:

```bash
bun install
```

### Development

**Run the web app:**

```bash
cd packages/web
bun dev
```

**Run the CLI:**

```bash
cd packages/cli
bun run src/cli.ts setup
```

**Build and deploy Cloud Functions:**

```bash
cd packages/functions
bun run build
firebase deploy --only functions
```

**Deploy monitoring infrastructure:**

```bash
cd infrastructure/terraform
terraform init
terraform apply
```

## Current Status

✅ **Complete:**
- Backend Cloud Functions (create, register, scheduled cleanup)
- Web app with Google Sign-In, device registration, and dashboard
- Device management (register, unregister with confirmation)
- Shared type-safe schemas (Zod)
- Firestore security rules (Cloud Functions-only write access)
- Monitoring infrastructure (Terraform-managed metrics, dashboards, alerts)

🔄 **In Progress:**
- CLI credential loading and session restoration
- Pi runtime operations (sensor data push/pull)

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime**: Bun
- **Frontend**: React + React Router + Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui
- **Backend**: Firebase (Auth, Firestore, Cloud Functions, Scheduler)
- **Infrastructure**: Terraform + Google Cloud Monitoring
- **CLI Framework**: clerc + Ink (React for CLIs)
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript + Zod schemas

## Documentation

- **Functions API**: See [packages/functions/README.md](./packages/functions/README.md)
- **CLI Usage**: See [packages/cli/README.md](./packages/cli/README.md)
- **Web App**: See [packages/web/README.md](./packages/web/README.md)
- **Infrastructure**: See [infrastructure/README.md](./infrastructure/README.md)

## Firestore Structure

```
/registration-codes/{code}
  deviceId: string
  createdAt: timestamp  # Auto-deleted after 24h by scheduled function

/users/{userId}/devices/{deviceId}
  name: string
  code: string
  registeredAt: timestamp

/devices/{deviceId}
  lastSeen: timestamp

/devices/{deviceId}/metrics/{metricId}  # Sensor data
/devices/{deviceId}/config               # Device configuration
/devices/{deviceId}/events/{eventId}     # Device events
```

## License

MIT License

Commit message:

Switch CLI to Google OAuth setup flow
Replace registration-code flow with direct Google OAuth (PKCE). Remove
registration code endpoints and cleanup scheduler, delete auth design
docs and demo build scripts. Update functions to use an authenticated
setupDevice (creates device & custom token), adjust Firestore rules, CLI
build scripts and env handling, and refresh README and package metadata
to reflect the OAuth-based setup process.

README.md, after:

# Overdrip

IoT plant watering system where Raspberry Pi devices authenticate with Firebase, push sensor data, and pull configuration.

## Project Structure

This is a Bun monorepo with platform-specific packages:

```
packages/
├── core/       # Shared platform-agnostic code (config, schemas)
├── cli/        # Raspberry Pi CLI (uses Bun APIs)
├── web/        # React web app (browser-safe)
└── functions/  # Firebase Cloud Functions (built with Bun, deployed to Node.js)

infrastructure/
└── terraform/  # Monitoring infrastructure (metrics, dashboards, alerts)
```

## Architecture

Overdrip uses a **direct Google OAuth authentication flow** with immediate device registration:

### 1. Device Setup (On Pi)

```bash
$ overdrip setup
```

- CLI prompts for device name (or asks to keep/change existing name for re-auth)
- CLI starts local OAuth server and opens Google sign-in in browser
- User authenticates with Google using PKCE (Proof Key for Code Exchange)
- CLI exchanges OAuth tokens for Firebase authentication
- CLI calls `setupDevice` Cloud Function with user authentication
- Device is immediately registered and ready to use

### 2. Runtime Operations

- Pi authenticates automatically on boot using stored credentials
- Device pushes sensor data and pulls configuration from Firestore
- Web dashboard displays all registered devices with real-time updates

### Key Features

- **Direct Google OAuth** - Secure PKCE flow, no client secrets needed
- **Immediate Registration** - Devices registered instantly during setup
- **Custom Device Names** - Users name devices during setup process
- **Re-authentication Support** - Existing devices can re-authenticate seamlessly
- **Monitoring** - Terraform-managed dashboards and alerts
- **Type-safe API contracts** - Shared Zod schemas between client and server
- **Real-time updates** - Firestore listeners for instant UI updates

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites

- [Bun](https://bun.sh) v1.2.23 or later
- [Terraform](https://terraform.io) (for infrastructure deployment)
- Firebase project configured

### Installation

Install dependencies for all packages:

```bash
bun install
```

### Development

**Run the web app:**

```bash
cd packages/web
bun dev
```

**Run the CLI:**

```bash
cd packages/cli
bun run src/cli.ts setup
```

**Build and deploy Cloud Functions:**

```bash
cd packages/functions
bun run build
firebase deploy --only functions
```

**Deploy monitoring infrastructure:**

```bash
cd infrastructure/terraform
terraform init
terraform apply
```

## Current Status

✅ **Complete:**

- OAuth-based authentication with PKCE security
- `setupDevice` Cloud Function with user authentication
- CLI with React-based UI and standalone executable compilation
- Web app with Google Sign-In and device dashboard
- Device management (unregister with confirmation)
- Shared type-safe schemas (Zod)
- Firestore security rules
- Monitoring infrastructure (Terraform-managed metrics, dashboards, alerts)

🔄 **In Progress:**

- Pi runtime operations (sensor data push/pull)
- Device status reporting and heartbeat system

## Tech Stack

- **Runtime**: Bun
- **Frontend**: React + React Router + Tailwind CSS + shadcn/ui
- **Backend**: Firebase (Auth, Firestore, Cloud Functions, Scheduler)
- **Infrastructure**: Terraform + Google Cloud Monitoring
- **CLI Framework**: clerc + Ink (React for CLIs)
- **Type Safety**: TypeScript + Zod schemas

## Documentation

- **Functions API**: See [packages/functions/README.md](./packages/functions/README.md)
- **CLI Usage**: See [packages/cli/README.md](./packages/cli/README.md)
- **Web App**: See [packages/web/README.md](./packages/web/README.md)
- **Infrastructure**: See [infrastructure/README.md](./infrastructure/README.md)

## Firestore Structure

```
/users/{userId}/devices/{deviceId}
  name: string
  registeredAt: timestamp    # Only set for new devices
  lastSetup: timestamp       # Updated on each re-authentication
  setupMethod: "google_oauth"

/devices/{deviceId}
  lastSeen: timestamp

/devices/{deviceId}/metrics/{metricId}  # Sensor data
/devices/{deviceId}/config               # Device configuration
/devices/{deviceId}/events/{eventId}     # Device events
```

## License

MIT License
